INFSCI 2955 Special Topics: Software Testing

Course Information

Taught by: Bill Laboon

Class Time: W 6:00 - 9:15.
Room: IS 406

Office Hours: 5:00 - 6:00

Office hours subject to change based on student feedback.

Contact: bill@billlaboon.com

My Pitt address is wjl23@pitt.edu but I check that much less frequently.
Please use bill@billlaboon.com OR laboon@gmail.com

Required Text: None.

This course provides students with a broad understanding of modern
software testing and quality assurance. Although it will cover testing
theory, the emphasis is on providing practical skills in software
testing currently used in industry. To that end, it will cover: manual
and automated tests, test-driven and behavior-driven development,
performance testing, and understanding and developing a testing
process.

Grading:
         Mid-term Exam............ 10%
         Final Exam:.............  10%

         Group Project:
           -> Deliverable 1....... 10%
           -> Deliverable 2....... 15%
           -> Deliverable 3....... 15%
           -> Deliverable 4....... 15%
           -> Final Deliverable... 25%

Total: The grading scale below shall be used.  Class participation may be used to decide grades on the borderline.
100.00-94.00 A (A+ for extraordinary work)
93.99-91.00	 A-
90.99-88.00	 B+
87.99-84.00	 B
83.99-81.00	 B-
80.99-78.00	 C+
77.99-74.00	 C
73.99-71.00	 C-
70.99-68.00	 D+
67.99-64.00	 D
63.99-61.00	 D-
60.99-0.00	 F

All groups are expected to do their own work on the group project, but
are more than welcome to collaborate and ask questions with other
groups, the Internet, or other colleagues.

However, any student caught collaborating or cheating on an exam will
automatically receive a 0 (zero) for that exam, and may be penalized
more harshly based on University of Pittsburgh academic policy.

The final exam will be cumulative.

It is recommended you keep all of your graded assignments until final
grades are posted and accepted, in order to resolve any discrepancies
in grading.

****

Lecture attendance is not required, but is STRONGLY recommended.
The instructor will try to ensure that all information on the exams
will be available via slides, but simply reading them may be
insufficient to understand the concepts thoroughly.

Presence for the mid-term and final exam are REQUIRED.  They will be
individually re-scheduled only in the event of an emergency.  If you
are facing an emergency, please contact the instructor IMMEDIATELY (if
it is safe to do so, of course).  Failure to show up for an exam
without clearing it first with the instructor will result in a 0
(zero) for that exam.

****

Group Project details -

Students will work in groups of two (which will change for the first
three deliverables).  These groups will perform the role of QA team on a
project which can be selected either by themselves, or assigned by the
instructor.  The fourth deliverable is to be done individually.  
The final deliverable can be with groups of students' own choosing, or the
student may choose to do the work on his or her own..

It is highly recommended that these projects should be in Ruby or Java;
other languages will not be able to be supported by the instructor.

The group should check with the instructor as to the feasibility of
the particular project they are working on.  The instructor reserves
the right to allocate a project to the group, but will work with the
group to come up with a project which will be of interest to them.

Deliverable 1 - A manual test plan for with traceability matrix for the Coffee Maker Quest game.

Deliverable 2 - Sufficient unit tests for a subset of the
Coffee Maker Quest functionality (requirements to be discussed in more detail
in class).

Deliverable 3 - Sufficient automated acceptance tests for a
subset of a web site's functionality.

Deliverable 4 - Peformance testing of an application.

Final Deliverable -
  -> This is up to the student.  It should be a testing-based project 
     of the student's choosing.  In the past, students have done additional
     web testing, algorithmic analysis, security testing, interviews with
     QA manager, and more.  

Deliverables must be handed in by close of class on the day that it is
due.  Late deliverables will be accepted up to two days late with a -20%
penalty.

****

Programming Language Selection

The instructor is open to groups using any programming language or
testing framework.  However, it is recommended that it be done in
Java or Ruby.  If your group decides to use another language, the
instructor may not be able to help with problems specific to that
language.

****

Disability Services statement: "The Office of Disability Resources and
Services (DRS) provides a broad range of support services to assist
students with disabilities. Services include, but are not limited to,
tape-recorded textbooks, sign language interpreters, adaptive and
transportation. Contact DRS at 412-648-7890 or 412-383-1355 (TTY) in
216 William Pitt Union or see www.drs.pitt.edu for more computer
technology, Braille translation, and nonstandard exam arrangements,
DRS can also assist students with accessibility to campus housing
information."

Academic Integrity Statement: "As members of the University of
Pittsburgh community, A&S students are expected to meet the obligation
to exhibit honesty and to respect the ethical standards of the
University community and of their chosen field of study in carrying
out academic assignments. A&S students are therefore expected to
familiarize themselves with the published rules and regulations go to
http://www.fcas.pitt.edu/academicintegrity.html
